Hadoop -is an open source framework that is used to store and process large datasets ,based on Java ,uses distributed storage and parallel processing 
   
In pandas Axis=0 refer as row and axis=1 refer as column

Matplotlib- creating static and animated visualizations
seaborn- data visualization library  
Pandas – It is used for working with datasets, it has functions such as analyzing,cleaning, exploring and manipulating data
numpy- used for working with array
Scikit-learn - open source data analysis library

cleaning data:removing incorrect data
manipulating data:method of organizing data

Data Normalization -  Process of recognizing data within the database

DataFrame - 2-dimensional data structure that can store different types  of data

1.Reshaping data -we can reshape the data by categorizing them into different numbers.
2.Merge operation- is used to merge raw data and into the desired format.
3.Filtering data-Some times datasets are comprised of unwanted rows or columns which are
required to be removed or filtered

1.Boxplot method-display the distribution of the categorical data in the form of quartiles.
2.Scatter Plot Method- determine the relationship between the two variables.
3.Z-score Method-It is also called a standard score. This value/score helps to understand that how far is the data point from the mean. And after setting up a threshold value one can utilize z score values of data points to define the outliers        #outliers=observations
4.IQR-Inter Quartile Range approach to finding the outliers  
5.MinMax Scaler- It just scales all the data between 0 and 1.
6.Standard Scaler- scales the values such that the mean is 0 and the standard deviation is 1
7.Log Transform- convert a skewed distribution to a normal distribution

1.Statistics-is a branch of mathematics that deals with collecting, analyzing, interpreting, and visualizing empirical data.
2.Mean-sum of all observations divided by the number of observations.
3.Mode-most frequently occurring value in your data
4.Median-middle value of a data.
5.Standard Deviation -measure of how spread the data,square root of Variance
6.Varience -average of the squared differences from the Mean

1.Linear regression: used to predict the value of a variable based on the value of another variable


1.Regression: estimating the relationships between a dependent variable and one or 
more independent variables
2.Dependent variable: target variable which we are trying to predict.
3.Independent variables: a variable that stands alone and isn't changed by the other variables , predict changes in the dependant variable
4.logistic Regression: estimates the probability of an event occurring, such as voted or didn't vote
5.Precision: Out of all the positive predicted, what percentage is truly positive.
Formula= TP/TP+FP
The precision value lies between 0 and 1.
6.Recall: Out of the total positive, what percentage are predicted positive.
Formula=TP/TP+FN
7.Accuracy: it is correct prediction and it tells overall correctness
Formula=TP+TN/TP+FP+TN+FN
8.confusion matrix: used for finding the errors in prediction 
                            Actual
                   Positive         Negative
        Positive      TP               FP
Predicted 
        Negative      FN               TN
9. True Positive: predicted positive and it’s true
10.True Negative: predicted negative and it’s truenb 
11.False Positive: predicted positive but it’s false.(Type 1 error)
12.False Negative: predicted negative but it’s false.(Type 2 error)

1.Naïve Bayes Classifier can be used for Classification of categorical data

1.Tokenization: The process of breaking down a text paragraph into smaller words or sentence is called Tokenization.
2.Stopwords: considered as noise in the text.
3.Stemming: Convert capital letter In small letter
4.Lemmatization: make the word list
5.POS Tagging: Part Of Speech it find the noun pronoun verb


A. Distribution Plots
a. Dist-Plot- represents the univariate analysis
b. Joint Plot- represents the bg ivariate analysis
d. Rug Plot- draw small bars along the x-axis for each point

B. Categorical Plots
a. Bar Plot- display the mean value
b. Count Plot- displays the count
c. Box Plot- display the distribution of the categorical data in the form of quartiles.
d. Violin Plot- statistical representation of numerical data

C. Advanced Plots
a. Strip Plot- draws a scatter plot
b. Swarm Plot- combination of the strip and the violin plots.

D. Matrix Plots
a. Heat Map-2d representation of data using colors
b. Cluster Map-hirarchically clustered heat map

1.scatter plot- how two variables relate to each other
2.Pie Chart- same as the countplot, gives additional info about the percentage
3.Histogram- value distribution plot of numerical columns.
4.Scatter Plot: To plot relationship between two numerical variables
5.Cluster map: understand the relationship between two categorical variables
